Networking
==========

The Amiga environment running within UAE may share the host machine's
network access via an emulation of the bsdsocket.library (which provides the
standard Amiga networking API). This isn't supported on all target platforms
yet, but it should work on Linux, Unix and Mac OS X.

There are currently two flavours of the bsdsocket emulation available in
E-UAE. The pre-compiled versions use the default "old" bsdsocket emulation,
based on the work of Carl Drougge. This has been greatly improved with
version 0.8.27, but still does not offer full compatibility will all
applications. It also requires a "stubs" bsdsocket.libary module to be
installed in the LIBS: directory in your Amiga environment. (Find this in
the amiga/ directory in the E-UAE distribution. Note that the stubs library
has also been updated with this version. To take full advantage of the
improved support, please install the new version). A new bsdsocket emulation
is also available as a compile-time option in this version and is largely
the work of Jeff Shepherd. This is based on the WinUAE bsdsocket emulation
and requires no stubs library (the bsdsocket.library is created in RAM like
any real Amiga network stack such as AmiTCP or Miami). It only works on x86
and PPC hosts currently and even then still has problems on some hosts, so
it is not built by default (see the section further on about configuring).
To enable support for either bsdsocket emulation (assuming you have support
for one or the other compiled in), add the option

bsdsocket_emu=true

to your config file. As mentioned above, the "old" bsdsocket emulation
also requires the stubs library in LIBS:.

Note that you do not need to install any real Amiga network stack such as
AmiTCP or Miami to be able to use the bsdsocket emulation.

Also note that when using the bsdsocket emulation that your AmigaOS
environment will use the same IP address as the host platform.
